How the cysts of the small brine shrimp Artemia were at the origin of a very successful ...
HOW THE CYSTS OF THE SMALL BRINE SHRIMP ARTEMIA WERE AT THE ORIGIN OF A VERY SUCCESSFUL NATIONAL AS WELL AS INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY COOPERATION
Patrick Sorgeloos
Emeritus professor of aquaculture, Ghent University, Belgium
I am very honored with the invitation to contribute to this anniversary book to celebrate the 55 years of development of Can Tho University in the Mekong Delta in Vietnam.
Although I visited Vietnam a few times in the early 1980s, my first experience with Can Tho University was only in 1986. 
It was upon invitation of FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations) that in the period April-May 1982 I was surveying the long coast of Vietnam for potential sites for farming brine shrimp Artemia in salt pond systems: if Vietnam wanted to develop aquaculture with hatchery activities for giant freshwater prawns (Macrobrachium rosenbergii), tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) and Asian seabass (Lates calcarifer) a cheap source of brine shrimp cysts (as source for live food for the first larval stages of these aquaculture species) should be found. 
Early 1990s in Vinh Chau, 
from left to right: Patrick Sorgeloos, 
Jaap Brands, Thomas Bosteels,... and Vu Do Quynh
Early 1990s in Vinh Chau, 
from left to right: Patrick Sorgeloos, 
Jaap Brands, Thomas Bosteels,... and Vu Do Quynh
Rather than importing these expensive cysts from the USA, the only commercial source at that time, Vietnam might try to produce Artemia locally during the dry season as had been demonstrated a few years earlier in seasonal salt farms in Thailand and the Philippines. Because the Mekong delta was so remote and isolated at that time, the most southern tip in the coastal survey was Vung Tau. The following years we were involved in the setting up of the first Macrobrachium hatchery in Vung Tau but the aim to set up an Artemia demonstration farm didn’t materialize. Apparently, the time was not ripe for such initiatives or we didn’t not team up with the right partners at that time. 
Vinh Chau Artemia field station (left in 1990, right in 2016)
A happy coincidence was my first meeting in 1985 with (the late) Jaap Brands of the Dutch non-governmental organization KWT (“Komitee Wetenschap en Techniek voor Vietnam”). Jaap, a die-hard optimist, told me about their successful cooperation with Can Tho University. He convinced me about the potential for Artemia production in the many artisanal salt farms in the Mekong Delta, how this could be a very welcome extra crop for these very poor people, living under subsistence survival conditions. A few months later I joined him to Can Tho and that was the start of the aquaculture cooperation between CTU and Ghent University. In no time the charismatic vice rector Tu Quang had made arrangements for a small bamboo shelter right in the middle of the operational salt ponds in the village of Vinh Chau, where a few staff from CTU, KWT and Ghent University could stay overnight and supervise the first Artemia production trials. I remember the spartan living conditions during the hottest weeks in the dry season: the only electricity that we could generate with a small home-made windmill was just sufficient to run a small air blower that we needed to hatch out the Artemia cysts and produce the baby Artemia for inoculation in the salt ponds. 
Pioneering times with a very enthusiastic team resulting in a major reward: within the first dry season in 1986 a few kilograms of top-quality Artemia cysts could be produced and that boosted a tremendous momentum and incentive to proceed further with Artemia and to eventually expand into brackish water/marine aquaculture developments at CTU. The following dry seasons more and more local farmers engaged into integrated salt + Artemia farming and the first commercial processing and marketing of Artemia cysts produced in Vietnam was a reality. Prototype cyst drying equipment was imported from Belgium but soon local workshops managed to fabricate more and bigger units that could be used by the 2 Artemia cooperatives that were processing the cysts of the ever increasing number of Artemia farmers in the Vinh Chau – Bac Lieu area in the Mekong delta. The central government was so impressed with CTUs accomplishments for the rural poor that they financed the extension of the “bamboo shelter” into a small Artemia research station in Vinh Chau that became the base for further studies to optimize the salt and Artemia farming and to develop new applications for local aquaculture: for example the marketing of concentrated seawater (brine) for use in inland hatcheries to make up seawater (1 m³ brine + 3 m³ freshwater = 4 m³ top quality seawater) and operate marine fish and shrimp hatcheries in the Can Tho area, 80 km away from the coast. Although the main interest and highest value is with the production of Artemia cysts, over the years several new applications with Artemia biomass were initiated: as nursery food for different fish and crustacean species and especially as ingredient in so-called Artemia omelet, the local dish that all foreign visitors that we brought to Vinh Chau (from Rectors to Ambassadors) have tasted ! It may be regarded as a culinary curiosity but the use of brine shrimp biomass is now being considered in several new development projects as a cheap and more sustainable substitute/ingredient in crab and shrimp cakes, a popular local food in for example Myanmar and Bangladesh and where these natural crab and shrimp resources are over exploited.   
Artemia workshop at CTU in 1993
As of the late ‘80s several CTU staff were sent to Ghent University initially for short-term training in Artemia production and use in fish/shellfish hatcheries, and as of 1991 for the 2-year MSc in Aquaculture program. With Nguyen Van Hoa as the first, a long list of PhD students took up their aquaculture studies at UGent in different labs of the UGent Aquaculture R&D Consortium.
As of the early 90s CTU and UGent managed to obtain funding from the Belgian Development Cooperation (Flemish Association for Development Cooperation and Technical Assistance VVOB and Flemish Inter University Council for Development Cooperation VLIRUOS) and from the European Commission (DG Research International Cooperation INCO projects) for further developments with Artemia and for domestication and restocking of mud crab in the mangrove rehabilitated areas in the Bac Lieu coastal region. Artemia production could be further improved and new hatchery techniques were developed for the production of crablets. Today the annual output of Artemia cysts and biomass from some 600 salt farms represents a value of nearly 4 million US $ and the hatchery production of over 500 million crablets in some 500 mudcrab hatcheries just over 4 million US $. Furthermore CTU has become very active in international aquaculture cooperation and was/is involved in setting up Artemia production in artisanal salt farms in Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Mozambique and Kenya. 
Training at the CTU Artemia field station in Vinh Chau of staff 
from India (left) and from Sri Lanka (right)
CTU staff providing training assistance in Kenya: 
harvest of first cysts in Malindi salt farm (2010)
Delegations from Iran (left) and India (right) 
visiting the CTU Artemia project activities
Back to the early ‘90s when the success of the UGent aquaculture projects with Can Tho University spurred more and more interest among university colleagues in Belgium: funding opportunities from VLIRUOS paved the way for a few colleagues from Ghent University and from Leuven University, active in different domains of agriculture, to set up new R&D projects with CTU staff from the College of Agriculture. 
Interesting anecdote from Lieve Gheysen and Nancy Terryn, visiting the IUC project in 2004: ... how comes we cannot order chicken nor ice cream: "sorry, no chicken, no eggs"... we were aware of the chicken virus problem, but as spoiled Belgians, we didn't realize that this could have such drastic consequences on food supplies!
VLIR IUC steering committee meeting in 2006
These bilateral cooperation projects made CTU more and more visible in Belgium and when VLIRUOS announced a call for Institutional University Cooperation (IUC) projects (of a duration of 10 years with a budget of 7 million Euro) CTU managed to be among the first universities in the South to be invited to prepare an interdisciplinary project coordinated by Ghent University. It was a great experience to work with the late Rector Tran Phuoc Duong to set up a consortium of colleagues from different institutes and colleges at CTU, with colleagues from the universities of Antwerp, Brussels, Ghent and Leuven, all active in different disciplines that matched with their CTU counterparts: terrestrial and aquatic food production, food science and technology, biotechnology, business management, and innovative teaching methods as the main topics. This was a very intensive period in my professional life but a very rewarding one in learning to coordinate a multidisciplinary team of Vietnamese and Belgian specialists. It all went so well because of the strong commitment and excellent interaction with the CTU leadership under the consecutive Rectors Tran Phuoc Duong, Tran Thuong Tuan, Le Quang Minh, Nguyen Anh Tuan and Ha Thanh Toan who called upon the very dedicated assistance of Dr Le Van Khoa for the daily follow up of all kinds of project matters with the UGent coordinator. 
The Belgian promotors have often repeated to me how beneficial this project has been in their professional career and to cite one of them “… the other impression that will never leave me was the enormous energy and drive that most of the CTU scientists with whom I worked displayed, their eagerness to learn, their intelligence and kindness. Finally, it is through CTU that I learned to work in multi-disciplinary contexts and appreciate its added value!” (Roel Merckx, Leuven University).  It is true that thanks to the cooperation with CTU, several Belgian colleagues from the universities of Brussels, Ghent and Leuven learned to work together and continued this new inter-university cooperation once back in Belgium. 
An important aspect in CTU’s achievements was the vision and initiative of Rectors Le Quang Minh and Ha Thanh Toan to involve other partner institutions in Vietnam and share with them the IUC experiences particularly in innovation in education and research, even before the project came to an end. This paved the way to a new VLIRUOS programme “Vietnam network Biosciences for Food” with CTU, Vietnam National University of Agriculture in Hanoi, Hue University, Nha Trang University and Research Institute for Aquaculture nr 2 in Ho Chi Minh City as project partners in setting up the new inter-university postgraduate programs “MSc in Food Technology” and MSc in Aquaculture” offered in English for students not only from Vietnam but also from countries in the Southeast Asian region (Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos, Nepal, the Philippines) and even from Africa (Kenya, Malawi, Nigeria, Rwanda, Tanzania -  a continent that can learn a lot from the impressive development process Vietnam has gone through in the last 3 decades). 
Another good example of successful initiatives generated by the IUC project is the work at the Biotechnology R&D Institute (BiRDI) in cooperation with partners from the ‘Vrije Universiteit Brussel’ (VUB) and Ghent University: “… the knowledge and expertise gained through the project has and is still being used to investigate cellulases from microorganism for treatment of cellulose waste from the rice fields or sugar cane waste. This new research line has opened new avenues for collaborations with for example the University of Limpopo in South Africa where cellulases and other glycosidases from microorganisms are being investigated. From the serum of the catfish Pangasianodon hypophthalmus, the main aquaculture species in Vietnam, several proteins were isolated and characterized that are involved in the defense against pathogens. Teaching in the English “Master programme in Biotechnology” and “Advanced Programme in Biotechnology” continues till today. These programmes are followed by Vietnamese students, as well as by students and researchers from abroad and thus contribute to the internationalisation policy of CTU as a whole. During all these years we enjoyed the warm hospitality of the BiRDI staff and students and were impressed by their motivation” (Eddy Van Driessche, VUB).  
According to a recent evaluation by VLIRUOS the CTU IUC project scores among the very best projects for the 3 pillars of university cooperation: post graduate education and training, basic and applied research, and service to society. Regarding the latter pillar, the socio-economic benefits for the Mekong delta are impressive, particularly the developments in rice farming and fruit production, new added-value food products and especially the enormous expansion of the aquaculture industry lifting Vietnam into the 4th biggest aquaculture producing country in the world, with CTU as a key driver for the developments in the Mekong delta, representing an annual turnover of 5 billion US $ and contributing 70% of the national aquaculture outputs. 
Closing event of the VLIR IUC project in 2008
I should not forget to express my gratitude to all the funding agencies who provided such unique opportunities to interact with our dear friends at CTU over a period of more than 30 years, especially during these pioneering years in the ‘80s and ‘90s: the many long journeys to Vinh Chau or HCM City passing several ferries  with the old KWT Land Rover (for which I often brought spare parts to keep it operational); our stays at the CTU guest house near the old campus where Mrs Marie was always taking good care of me, especially warning me not to work too long in the evening at the stone table downstairs where often rats were “passing by”; using all our combined imagination and creativity to build new culture systems with any locally available materials we could find, as budgets were so tight; moving to Saigon Can Tho hotel once VLIR funding permitted; CTU staff arranging a motorcycle instead of the bicycle to move around Can Tho from one campus to the other; all sweet memories as  we saw Can Tho developing from a remote rural town, far away from the big city HCM City, into a modern town easily accessible once the new bridges were built, with more hotels, less bicycles but more motorcycles and eventually cars and taxis, a new airport, more shopping malls, eventually becoming the 5th Central city of Vietnam worth the “TP” label. 
I also thank CTU management for the trust I have experienced with all of them, how I could convince them to engage in new initiatives and projects, how they were generous hosts for the many guests that I brought along from all over the world, and as Ann Peters reminded me recently “… for the delicious banquets with unique Vietnamese dishes, particularly the stuffed crab prepared and offered in the guesthouse by Mrs Marie”. 
I think most of you do know that Vietnam has a very special place in my heart, the immense human satisfaction that I have experienced in working with colleagues and friends in Vietnam, how this even was taken over by my late wife Magda who did care so much for her Vietnamese students who considered “mama Magda” as their Belgian mother, and to my big surprise even my children and grand-children who insisted to organize a visit to the places where Magda and I had been “working” with our Vietnamese friends in Can Tho and in Vinh Chau. 
Family Patrick Sorgeloos visiting Can Tho, Vinh Chau and Bac Lieu in 2016
Many thanks Can Tho University and Vietnam, from the bottom of my heart. All the best for a bright future for Can Tho University! 
PS. I like to thank our Belgian friends who provided inputs and pictures for this contribution: Ludo Cuyvers (Antwerp University), Eddy Van Driessche (Vrije Universiteit Brussel), Roel Merckx (Leuven University), Ann Peters, Nancy Terryn, Lieve Gheysen and Jean Dhont (Ghent University), and Christoph Goossens (Flemish Inter University Council for Development Cooperation)
		1
