CTU and JICA/Japan - History and Prospects
CTU AND JICA/JAPAN
HISTORY AND PROSPECTS
TSUNODA Manabu
Chief Advisor, JICA CTU Project
A JICA CTU Project started in March 2016. Before that, I visited CTU 4 times to support the formulation of the Project with mission members. Then, I turned back to CTU from 2018 as a chief advisor of the Project. 
I was engaged in Higher Education Institutes in Asia, Africa and the Middle East as a JICA Senior Advisor for 36 years. Among those institutes, CTU is the most promising university with a lot of future potentials. At the same time, I always appreciate CTU’s passions and warm hospitality.
First of all, all of JICA CTU Project members celebrate the CTU’s 55th anniversary from the bottom of our hearts. During these long and fast-changing 55 years, both Vietnamese and Japanese teams have been working together at many parts of the important stages of CTU and even now still continue the collaboration towards further development of CTU. 
Along the time axis related to JICA/Japan, three categories (past, present and future) could be classified based on key projects; ① Past as the foundation stage, ②Present as the applied/growing stage, and ③Future as the further expected social contribution stage. 
	“PAST” AS THE FOUNDATION STAGE
Since its establishment in 1966, CTU has produced many leaders in the region, as a core institution for developing human resources for sustainable regional development with both CTU’s efforts and several types of support from in and out of Vietnam. One of dedicated supporting countries was Japan including Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
	First Technical Cooperation Project 
JICA's first support for CTU dates back 52 years. In 1969, the first agreement on the “Technical Cooperation Project for Agricultural Faculty of CTU” was signed. During these times (1966-1976), many Japanese scientists came to CTU and designed new training programs1). They also conducted scientific research with CTU staff although research laboratories were still not yet fully established. However, CTU had passions enough to work together with Japanese scientists. This is important foundation stage towards CTU’s development and mutual confidence between the two countries. In 1971, some equipment for education and research were delivered from Japan and the Ambassador of Japan in Vietnam, H.E. Mr. TOGO Fumihiko gave a speech at the handing-over ceremony on 21st Feb.,1971 at CTU.    
	Project for the Facilities and Equipment (the Grant Aid)
After the unification of the Vietnam in the late 1970s and the early 1980s, Japanese Scientists and JICA staff with the Embassy of Japan continued to work with CTU staff for further development plan of CTU including infrastructure of the CTU campus-II and staff training in Japan.  
In 1993, “The Project for the Improvement of the Facilities and Equipment” started to upgrade the College of Agriculture.
To realize these Projects successfully, tireless efforts and coordination works were carried out by Vietnamese and Japanese professionals.
According to the report (memoir) of Prof. Nguyen Viet Truong2), he describes some Japanese key persons, especially Prof. KAWAMOTO Nobuyuki, Prof. OHTA Yasuo, Mr. FUJITA Kimio, Prof. ISHIZAKI Mitsuo, and Mr. KASAI Akira and explains in the report as follows;
“IF NOT FOR THE CONTRIBUTION OF PROF ISHIZAKI AND MR KASAI, THE UNIVERSITY OF CANTHO AND PARTICULARLY THE FACULTY OF AGRICULTURE WOULD NOT BE AT THE PRESENT STATE.
CANTHO UNIVERSITY IS PROFOUNDLY GRATEFUL FOR THEIR CONTRIBUTION”
(Source)2) Report by Professor Nguyen Viet Truong, 
Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, CTU (1969-1975), Deputy Rector, CTU (1972-1975)
Group Photos at CTU with Prof. Truong in 19712)
  Inauguration Ceremony of Faculty of Agriculture in 1996
1.3 Second Technical Cooperation Project (1999-2002)3)
1) Project Goal and Purpose
JICA Technical Cooperation Project on “Environmental Education in Agricultural Sciences” was implemented between 1999 and 2002 at College of Agriculture (CoA) of CTU under the support of Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology (TUAT) as the main supporting university in Japan. 
The Project aimed to enhance education in the field of environmental science and research capacity at CTU, to support research activities, and to establish educational systems such as revising curriculum, developing materials and training teachers, in the areas of three Topics;
(Topic 1) Soil and aquatic environmental science, 
(Topic 2) Impacts of development activities on the bio-diversities, and
(Topic 3) Foundation of environment-symbiotic agriculture.
2) Evaluation of the Project
According to the JICA Evaluation Report3), the evaluation results are summarized based on 5 criteria as of 23rd March, 2002;
a) Relevance
In the Mekong Delta area, environmental pollution caused by the development of farmland and increased use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides has been a main concern. However, the lack of scientific data on residual pesticides, water quality and soil property has made the actual extent of pollution unclear. Consequently, this has limited implementing specific countermeasures to ensure environmental conservation. CTU as well as the local government have recognized that human resources development is essential to promote environmental policy.
b) Effectiveness
Though most of the counterparts lacked laboratory work experience before the Project, their capacity has been improved through the Project. They can now actively implement research work such as 31 newly introduced analytical techniques and research methods and 23 new research themes. Achievement of the Project purpose is also indicated by Project outputs such as 48 curriculums were either established or improved, and 56 research papers were generated.
c) Efficiency
The expected outputs were realized as is seen by indicators such as 22 textbooks, five teaching materials and the awarding of degrees to graduates. 
d) Impact
The acquired techniques in the Project are to be introduced and utilized in the extension activities conducted by the College of Agriculture on a small scale. The analytical data of samples collected through the field survey were distributed to the related institutions.
e) Sustainability
The central laboratory of the University operates and maintains the analytical equipment provided. The financial stability is still vague, even though they have a plan to introduce a fee system in order to ensure analysis and maintenance costs. 
3) Conclusion, Recommendation and Lessons Learned of the 2nd Technical Cooperation
The three-year Project (2nd Technical Cooperation) activities have produced many outputs. 
Considering cooperation in the field of agriculture, the principal purpose was to develop to improve the standard of living of farmers, and increase products and income (decreasing poverty). On the other hand, as for the upgrading and expanding of research and advanced education, it takes time to disseminate the effects and this does not directly impact on the farmers who are concerned with immediate day-to-day problems. In planning the project, it is necessary to prepare the plan taking the difference between research and education, and actual agricultural development into consideration3).
1.4 Special Issues
In May 2009, CTU has been donated by former Emperor Akihito's paper on the discovery of Goby's new species collected in the Mekong Delta. This paper is now displayed at the Exhibition Hall of CTU administration building as a symbol of friendship between Japan and Vietnam. 
(The interesting story is explained in detail in Reference-1).
A Scientific Paper (Journal of Ichthyology on 20th Aug., 1976) 
by Imperial Highness Crown Prince of Japan Akihito 
and Dr. Katsusuke Meguro.
2. “PRESENT” AS THE APPLIED/GROWING STAGE
One of the Government Strategies of Vietnam was to achieve its industrialization by the year 2020 through strengthening its economic structure, which depends not only on cheap labor cost but also on quality human resources with advanced knowledge and skills. In order to realize this, the Government has been improving its higher education institutions such as universities and colleges to supply quality human resources to Vietnam economy and thereby raise Vietnam’s global competitiveness. Based on this strategy, the Government decided to establish 4 leading model universities in 2006, which have potentials of international level research and education.  Can Tho University (CTU) was selected as one of those 4 universities.
CTU expected to strengthen its education and research capacity especially in three fields; agriculture, aquaculture/fisheries, and environment to achieve its mission through staff training, construction of campus facilities, installation of research equipment and upgrading of research activities based on all outputs/outcomes of the foundation stage (around up to 2010). 
Through a series of discussions and documentation works, the proposal of CTU was finally approved by both Governments (Vietnam and Japan) in 2015.
Two Projects, ➀ CTU Improvement Project under ODA Loan, and ➁ The Project for Building Capacity for CTU to be an Excellent Institution of Education, Scientific Research and Technology Transfer under Technical Cooperation, will strengthen the research and education capacity in the fields of agriculture, aquaculture/fisheries, environment and other inter-related fields at CTU.  
This could be a leading model operating under international standards, thereby supporting the development of the human resources necessary to promote Vietnam’s agriculture and fisheries, and addressing environmental issues in the Mekong Delta region with support from Japanese universities. 
At present (in 2021), two Projects are actively implementing at the same time under CTU initiatives in collaboration with JICA/Japan.  As they are closely related to each other, it is used to call JICA CTU Project for two combined projects. 
2.1 JICA CTU Project
1) Outline of the Project (JICA CTU Project)
The overall objective of the project is to strengthen CTU towards an excellent and internationally recognized institution in the above fields.
Two Parallel Projects under the JICA CTU  　　
The key point of the JICA CTU Project is to enhance three core university functions (Education, Research and Community Outreach). In order to strengthen these functions, CTU is working in close partnership with Japanese Supporting University Consortium (JSUC) and relevant companies. 
The JSUC includes 9 core universities: Hokkaido University, Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology, Kyoto Institute of Technology, Osaka University, Kyushu University, Nagasaki University and Kagoshima University. The JSUC gives an important role to implement the Project activities. Professors dispatched under JICA TC scheme promotes a variety of academic activities; lecture of Master Program (climate change), joint research activities, special seminars and advice of new equipment plan. They also support in Japan on staff development of CTU such as Study in Japan (Master and Ph.D) and technical training. Without the support of JSUC, the Project cannot be implemented smoothly. CTU will continue to make academic links with those universities after finishing the Project.
2) Key Contents of Activities (JICA CTU Project)
a) Development of Education Programs
The New Master Programs were developed and started with keyword of “climate change” in the Mekong Delta 
So far, as of February, 2021, students until the three cohorts were enrolled from local governments of the MD, private companies, CTU and other universities/institutes. Especially, local governments showed keen interests on this climate change program in line with government staff development. 
For example, 61 staff from Vinh Long Province enrolled in this special program in the field of Agriculture from Oct.,2019, and 21 staff from Ca Mau Province also enrolled in the Aquaculture as the 3rd Cohort from Oct.,2020. In this program, students could study overall climate change issues and their challenges in the MD. Other Provinces also show interest to participate in this program.
CTU is planning to make a CTU alumni network after graduation to share the updated scientific information of the MD in line with continuing education supports.  
In general, these programs are well evaluated by students and CTU itself to contribute to the society which gives a direct impact for the stakeholders who are facing climate change issues of the MD.  Quality continuing education with more practical learnings would be indispensable for the next generation of the Society in Vietnam.
	Joint Research Activities 
Joint Research Activities are in progress in the fields of agriculture, aquaculture/fisheries and environment. Common key topics of all activities are Climate Change and Mekong Delta. 
The total number of research programs are 40, which includes; 
4 Model Joint Research Programs under Technical Cooperation (TC), and 36 Joint Research Programs under ODA Loan.
Research topics of 4 Model Joint Research Programs are as follows; 
	➀ 	Exploitation, Conservation and Sustainable Use of Rice Genetic Resources in the Mekong Delta on Adaptation to Climate Change, 
	➁ 	Study on Application of Biological Control Agents for Management of Important Insect Pests and Diseases in Paddy Fields in the Mekong Delta of Viet Nam, 
	③ 	Effects of Increased Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Concentration and Temperature on Important Aquaculture Species in the Mekong Delta, Viet Nam, and 
	④ 	Sustainable Application of Biochar from Green biomass to mitigate greenhouse gases emission from paddy fields and to improve soil ecology in the Mekong Delta
The above four programs have completed the research activities with final reports. Many outputs have been published in journals and some of them are utilized to proceed the next stage (outcomes) of research activities including technology transfer.
Research topics of 36 Joint Research Programs under ODA Loan are on-going in the following three fields; 
Joint Research Programs (36) under ODA Loan with Each Team Leader
Outputs of these research activities are encouraged to share information in and outside CTU such as seminars and conferences, which are now actively implementing.
The number of scientific papers of international and domestic journals is expected to drastically increase within a few years because almost all of research activities be completed by 2021.
The Project also encourages further research activities among companies and universities towards research-development-demonstration-dissemination (RDDD), and commercialization.
From now on, these research outputs and outcomes are expected to be effectively utilized for technology transfer at the MD because the next proposal of the CTU Project aims to implement more practical applications for the MD under climate change in line with the Resolution-120 and Decisions-417 and 324 issued by the Vietnam Government.  
	Human Resource Development (HRD): 
Based on the CTU staff development strategy, the following two schemes of the Project are carrying out intensively; Study in Japan (Ph.D/Master) and Short-term Training in Japan.
Under the Project HRD plan, 44 staff went to Japan for study in graduate courses including 35 for Ph.D and 9 for Master courses. Now (as of Jan.,2021) 23 staff have already been back from Japan with degrees. Two more staff are planned to go to Japan for Ph.D Study within 2021.
How to encourage them after back to CTU is also an important follow-up issue as mobilizing powers for the CTU next generation. Some of them have already involved in the Project activities of climate change master course and joint research.
As for the short-term training, technical and management trainings were implemented for academic and administrative staff.
Some of CTU staff just returned from Study in Japan (Master or Ph.D)
	Facility Construction
In the framework of the CTU Improvement Project (ODA Loan), the ground breaking ceremony for the construction of new facilities was held in November 2019. Immediately after the Ceremony, the construction has started and are progressing rapidly.
Within the year 2021, all four facilities (two new laboratory buildings: Advanced Technology Laboratories, Research Laboratory Complex, and two field laboratories: Hatcheries, Net House) are to be completed with installation of new equipment and operation/maintenance of the new facilities. Those new facilities equipped with modern instruments are to improve drastically the academic environment of CTU, and expected to be fully utilized for the MD communities.
New Facilities under Construction 
(as of Dec. 2020) at CTU Campus-II
Image of New Facilities after Completion (Can Tho University Improvement Project)
The "Technical Cooperation Project", which has been conducted since March 2016, was capable of developing human resources to respond to various issues brought about by climate change in the agriculture, fisheries and environmental fields. The effective utilization of research “outputs” related to climate change are highly expected to contribute to the sustainable development under the influence of climate change as “outcomes” for the MD. 
2.2 Collaboration of CTU and Japanese Universities
Besides Japanese Government/JICA, CTU has special partnerships with Japanese Universities.  
Over more than 20 years, students of Kyoto Institute of Technology (KIT) accompanied by staff visited CTU and studied intensively together with CTU students especially in laboratories in the field of agriculture, science, engineering and ICT.
Academic Exchange between CTU and Japanese Universities
In addition to the above CTU-KIT activities, the following are other examples of joint studies and academic exchange between CTU and Japanese universities, which are actively implemented every year; CTU and the University of Tokyo in the field of rural development, CTU and Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology (TUAT) in innovative business management workshop, and CTU and Nagasaki University in the field works of environmental conservation.
2.3 Higher Education Network Towards Internationalization
Due to all efforts of CTU international relation office, CTU is always actively receiving visitors from universities/colleges, companies and governments from in and out of Vietnam. This gives many possibilities for several type of linkages after introducing each other through deep discussions and site visits.
For example, after receiving and discussing the delegation from Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) in Africa in Feb.,2019, the CTU team in turn visited JKUAT in Feb.,2020 to see the actual sites and discuss further possible areas of collaboration. Based on these exchange visits, it is highly expected to proceed the next step such as joint research and training programs on the identified fields, staff and students exchange, and establishment of North, East, West and South (NEWS) network6).
If CTU continues to strengthen academic attractiveness and uniqueness as selling points, CTU could be a Hub of higher education network which leads to the internationalization of CTU.
Higher Education Network (CTU and JKUAT)
	2.4	45th years anniversary of Vietnam and Japan
In 2018 several events were held to celebrate the 45th anniversary of Vietnam and Japan diplomacy. The Photos show the international symposium of Vietnam-Japan cultural exchange at Can Tho city and the anniversary events at CTU (in Campus II and Hoa An Campus). Through these activities, the connection and relationship between two countries is becoming stronger and more stable.
45th years anniversary of Vietnam and Japan
Can Tho City is becoming an attractive place of tourism or investment opportunity for companies including Japan. 
In CTU, several types of collaboration between CTU and Japanese Companies are on-going. For these three years (2019-2021), at least the following linkages were strengthened;
a) CTU and Yanmar Agricultural Research Institute,
b) CTU and Takesho Food & Ingredients,
c) CTU and Mitsubishi Electric Co.Ltd., and
d) CTU and SMC Manufacturing Co.Ltd.
2.5 Can Tho University receiving JICA President Award4)
On December 10th, 2019, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Vietnam Office held a ceremony to present JICA President Award to Can Tho University (CTU).
Since 2005, JICA has presented JICA President Award to individuals and institutions that have made particularly significant achievements in human resource development and social development in developing countries through international cooperation projects. 
CTU, which has made great contributions to the promotion of relationship between the two countries through JICA projects and the sustainable development of the Mekong Delta region, was awarded with the 15th JICA President Award.
(Left) Prof. Dr. Ha Thanh Toan, CTU Rector, sent a speech at the ceremony, (Right) Group Photo
(Source4): CTU Website https://en.ctu.edu.vn/news/
744-can-tho-university-receiving-jica-president-award.html)
Speaking at the ceremony, Rector of CTU, Prof. Dr. Ha Thanh Toan expressed his honor to celebrate this event which can be seen an important milestone in the progress of CTU Improvement project and Technical Cooperation project as well as the meaningful relationship of Vietnam and Japan. Since its foundation in 1966, CTU has affirmed its position and an important role as a leading research and training center in the region, especially in the field of agriculture, aquaculture and environment. CTU will continue to make great efforts for the socio-economic development of the region.  
3. “EXPECTED FUTURE” AS THE SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION STAGE 
	Towards More Unique and Attractive CTU 
Compared to other universities in the world, CTU has three unique/attractive points;
	Location, 2) New Facilities (as first users), and 3) Human Resources & Network of the MD.
	Location
CTU is located at the almost center of the Mekong Delta (MD), which is a huge productive area of Agriculture and Fisheries for Vietnam and the World. 
At the same time, the MD is now seriously affected by the climate change. 
Especially in the year of 2020, all of the world are facing natural disasters including Vietnam and Japan. Within one month of October in 2020, seven (7) typhoons were created in the off-shore of Vietnam, and some of them attacked the Vietnam continuously. This is very crucial and challenging issues due to the effect of climate change. 
Looking from a different angle, this means that CTU is given a big chance to contribute to the MD on how to take measures against the climate change, and how to implement sustainable development under climate change. Vietnam and the world keep watching CTU’s actions as a center of excellence of the MD with a big expectation. This is a great challenge for CTU. The real field laboratory for CTU could be the whole Mekong Delta together with communities. 
	New Facilities
The construction of new facilities as explained in 2.1 is to be completed by 2021 with new equipment. Current CTU staff are first users of these facilities. How to utilize these new facilities effectively, depends on CTU’s unique idea with innovation.  It is highly expected that those new facilities in harmony with existing ones will be properly arranged and coordinated to cater for the demand of the MD communities.
Professor Ha Thanh Toan, Rector of CTU, said at the ground-breaking ceremony for construction of the CTU Improvement Project on 20th November, 2019 that, once completed, the project will contribute to the development of CTU as an institution on a par with its regional and global peers.
	Human Resources and Network of the MD
CTU has already been establishing a wide human network in the MD for these 55 years. Majority of students (78 % in year 2020) of CTU come from the MD and many CTU graduates (more than 70 %) are working in this region. We can frequently come across CTU graduates who play an active part in the MD society. 
CTU also has abundant human resources with a variety of disciplines and experiences. The number of CTU young staff coming back to the CTU Campus after study (Master or Ph.D) in abroad is increasing. 
We are emphasizing the importance to make active networks to implement the sustainable development in the whole MD scale. To effectively utilize the network of CTU graduates could be more unique and attractive points for implementing sustainable activities.
	Effective Utilization of CTU Assets contributing to the MD Communities
	Interdisciplinary Approach for the Whole Mekong River Catchment 
Agriculture issues of the MD region in general cannot be solved by only people in the field of agriculture. The MD is an outstanding region of development to be considered sustainability and diversity related to agriculture such as;
a) Livelihood of the people
b) High speed/rapid urbanization
c) Climate change resilient agriculture
d) Environment conservation
e) Abundant potentials of local materials
f) Entrepreneur (start-up and scale-up)
g) Waste management and recycling
h) Tourism of agriculture/aquaculture
The connection between sectors and provinces with strong strategies is quite important to tackle huge issues of building a climate-change resilient society in the MD. It is highly recommended to involve many actors with different disciplines for further innovation and creativeness. To make an appropriate and harmonized direction of the MD sustainable development, interdisciplinary approach is indispensable to understand the reality of the MD through wide range of specialists of different fields. University with a variety of disciplines in the MD could be strong supporting bodies to implement and monitor those field-work activities.
	Government-Industry-University Collaboration 
In order to empower sustainable development in the MD, the collaboration among the following three important partners is effective and efficient; 
① Local Governments, ② Industries, and ③ Universities.
If we want to commercialize products using local materials in the MD, all knowledge and experiences through university and industry be fully utilized. This is because the environment of research and development (R&D) for industries is still at growing stage and not yet matured especially at local areas. And for University it is not well experienced commercialization skills compared to industry. Participation of Local Government is also highly desirable in terms of sustainability (upgrading quality) and dissemination to the community. 
	Demonstration/Dissemination of Good Examples
Visible demonstrations at the sites are one of best methods to promote the understanding of R&D outputs and offer new ideas for communities in those areas. 
CTU has been contributing to the community in the MD through Local Governments and Industries. Outputs of University-Industry Collaborations like fertilizers for agriculture are now widely utilized by farmers in the MD. 
CTU is also strengthening to establish Model Sites in collaboration with Local Governments and Industries to demonstrate good show cases for the communities in the MD.
These are based on investigation and evaluation of the climate change effect such as salinity intrusion to agriculture/aquaculture.
Demonstration/Dissemination of Good Examples of CTU Products
	Network as an inter-regional Approach
General Planning of the MD needs to encompass the Whole Mekong River Catchment. Changes in upstream regions will affect those in downstream areas. On the other hand, sea water intrusion from downstream coastal areas will affect upstream lands. Many parts such as agricultural product and living daily life heavily rely on the Mekong River. How to monitor the whole real (actually happening) information of the MD is one of crucial issues. Strong connection and mutual supports among 13 provinces and sectors of the MD are highly recommended. 
Without strengthening network of the whole MD, all current integrated real pictures of the MD would not be easily possible. If we really improve and/or develop the MD with sustainability, collaborations of all provinces and stakeholders are expected to be strengthened under strong network. Universities such as CTU are highly expected to contribute to the Network.
	Updated Information Integrated Center
According to Decision 417/QD-TTG, it is clearly proposed to develop a Center of integrated data about MD region. In order to run the Center smoothly, it is recommended that each province sets up the province site center to make close communication with the Main Center. After getting updated information from each province site center, the Main Center will give each site center some useful feedback about those integrated/analyzed data under the above network. The Main Center itself is desirable to have the following key functions;
To share overall updated agricultural and environmental information of the MD,
To monitor the whole MD in collaboration with Provinces, Universities and Institutes,
To implement human resource development with on-site practices with advanced technologies under climate change and rapid urbanization, and
To receive and advise a variety of technical consultations from industries, communities and others, and to link with international bodies (if needed).
Once these centers be established and function properly, it would be possible to settle other important issues for the safe MD such as integrated waste management, environment protection and diversity, 
and integrated catchment management due to the rapid urbanization of the MD.
3.3 CTU’s Expected Role: “Home Doctor” of the Dynamic Mekong Delta 
CTU is a part of the MD Communities. The MD itself is developed dynamically under the global environment circumstances. As CTU is located at the center of the MD, the real field laboratories for CTU could be the whole MD.
CTU is full of confidence to become a think tank in education, scientific research and technology transfer in the MD region. If CTU receives the consultation on scientific issues from the communities, CTU will be ready to advise and support them using all CTU assets. Therefore, CTU sometimes could have a role of “Home (House) Doctor” of the MD.
A New JICA TC Project proposal (2nd Stage) aiming at the collaboration with the MD communities has already been accepted by Vietnam Government in Dec. 2020 and is now under consideration in the Japanese Government.
This collaboration with MD communities corresponds to the direction of the Government (Resolution-120, Decisions-417,324) and the CTU Mission which CTU is the crucial driving force for the development of the Mekong Delta region. 
CTU is expected to continue to move forwards stage by stage with strategy.
"If CTU fully utilizes these potentials and assets effectively, CTU will be automatically a leading, top ranking institute in Vietnam, and a leading Hub of the Delta/climate change in the world. This is not a miracle, this is a realistic dream".
REFERENCES
Giao luu van hoa Viet Nam-Nhat Ban Dong bang song Cuu Long-Cantho nam 2018, Ky yeu hoi thao khoa hoc quoc te, nov., 2018, Su phat trien cua dai hoc can tho gan lien voi su hop tac va giup do cua chinh phu va nhan dan Nhat Ban by PGS.TS. Le Viet Dung (PP.5-18)
Report (memoir) with Photos by Professor Nguyen Viet Truong, Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, CTU (1969-1975), Deputy Rector, CTU (1972-1975)
Terminal Evaluation Report by Japan International Cooperation Evaluation Mission, The Evaluation Date (11-23/March/2002), https://www.jica.go.jp/english/our_work/evaluation/tech_and_grant/project/term/asia/vietnam_2001_1.html and The Project Final Report (in Japanese), April 2002, JICA Mini Project Team and Supporting Committee
Can Tho University received JICA President Award, 10th December, 2019. CTU Website https://en.ctu.edu.vn/news/744-can-tho-university-receiving-jica-president-award.html
Seminar on “After one year of implementing Resolution 120 / NQ-CP on sustainable development of the Mekong Delta under climate change” on 14th Dec.,2018, Mekong Delta Forum 2019 at HCMC, “Innovative inter-regional approach for climate-resilient and sustainable agriculture development in Mekong Delta Region” presented by Tsunoda Manabu.
Report on Academic Visit to JKUAT/Kenya by the CTU Mission for strengthening the Asia-Africa Higher Education Network, CTU/JICA Mission Team, 16/March/2020
		20
		1
		21
